---
title: Haskell School of Music 2.1-2.2
description: These are some points of reference and notes from the book the haskell school of music chapter two.
---

<PageDescription>
  These are some points of reference and notes from the book the haskell school
  of music chapter two.
</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>
  <AnchorLink>2.1 Preliminaries</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>2.2 Notes, Music, and Polymorphism</AnchorLink>
</AnchorLinks>

## 2.1 Preliminaries

We can express musical ideas in Haskell with _type synonyms_.

```haskell
type Octave = Int
```

type synonyms can be defined for both atomic types and structured types for instance:

```haskell
type Pitch = (PitchClass, Octave)
```

Another important concept is duration which Euterpea defines with the `Rational` number data type.

```haskell
type Dur = Rational
```

### 202004031532

> In mathematics, a rational number is a number that can be expressed as the quotient or fraction p/q of two integers, a numerator p and a non-zero denominator q. Since q may be equal to 1, every integer is a rational number. The set of all rational numbers, often referred to as "the rationals", the field of rationals or the field of rational numbers is usually denoted by a boldface Q (or blackboard bold \mathbb {Q} , Unicode ℚ); it was thus denoted in 1895 by Giuseppe Peano after quoziente, Italian for 'quotient'

**_Why Rationals_**

- many durations are expressed as ratios
- rational numbers are exact unlike floating point numbers
- irrational durations are rarely needed

```haskell
data PitchClass = Cff | Cf | C | Dff | Cs | Df | Css | D | Eff | Ds
                | Ef | Fff | Dss | E | Ff | Es | F | Gff | Ess | Fs
                | Gf | Fss | G | Aff | Gs | Af | Gss | A | Bff | As
                | Bf | Ass | B | Bs | Bss
```

The diference here is that we have defined a new _algebraic data type_ that can be used in pattern matching in functions where as a _type synonym_ does not create a new _constructor_.

<InlineNotification>

**Note**

Enharmonics are notes that sound the same.

</InlineNotification>

## 2.2 Notes, Music, and Polymorphism

We may want to attach additional information to a note pr rest for instance if it is a percussive sound this will have no pitch in Haskell Euterpea solves this with polymorphism.
A first attempt may look like

```haskell
data Primitive = Note Dur Pitch
               | Rest Dur

--
-- We can redefine this as a polymorphic data type...
--

data Primitive a = Note Dur a
                 | Rest Dur
```

Polymorphism is often called type absraction.

```haskell
data Music a = Prim (Primitive a)        -- primitive value
             | Music a :+: Music a       -- sequential composition
             | Music a :=: Music a       -- parallel composition
             | Modify Control (Music a)  -- modifier
```

** This music type essentially says four things about the form a piece of data can take to exist as something that Euterpea can translate to music.**

1. Prim p is a terminal mode in which p is a primitive value of `Primitive a`
2. `m1 :+: m2` is the sequential composition of two music types -- one is played after the other
3. `m1 :=: m2` is the parallel ccomposition of two music types -- both are played together
4. `Modify cntrl m` is an annotated version of `m` in which the `cntrl` parameter specifies the way in which `m` should be modified.
