---
title: Haskell School of Music 1.4-1.6
description: These are some points of reference and notes from the book the haskell school of music chapter one.
---

<PageDescription>
These are some points of reference and notes from the book the haskell school of music chapter one.
</PageDescription>

<AnchorLinks>
  <AnchorLink>1.4 Expressions and Values</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>1.5 Types</AnchorLink>
  <AnchorLink>1.6 Function Types and Type Signatures</AnchorLink>
</AnchorLinks>

## 1.4 Expressions and Values
Examples of expressions are _atomic values_ such as `42` or `'a'`.
There are also structured expressions such as a list of pitches, or pair of character and integer.
Strings are also expressions and all of these are also values since there is no further computaion that can be done.

<Row>
<Column colMd={5} colLg={8}>
</Column>
<Column colMd={2} colLg={3} offsetMd={1} offsetLg={1}>
<Aside aria-label="Example aside">

**Technically**

Each type has it's own version of ⊥.
</Aside>
</Column>
</Row>

Expressions whose definitions result in a never ending sequence of calculations are said to diverge.

The symbol ⊥ represents the value of such expressions since the there is nothing to distinguish one divergent expression from another.


## 1.5 Types
Every expression and value has a type and the association of an expression with its type is called a _type signature_. Haskell ensures programs are well typed.

## 1.6 Function Types and Type Signatures

Returning to the earlier example of the _simple_ function we can write its type signature as:
```hs
simple :: Integer -> Integer -> Integer -> Integer
simple x y z = x * (y + z)
```
Its a good idea to write the type before creating the function you want to define. Use of a function is called function application.
Function application always has higher precedence than operator application. For example:
```hs
f x + g y
⇒ (f x) + (g y)
```
Despite the difference operators are still just functions.